Lateral joins, ok
Sometimes you have, for example
From time to time I show things
in these presentations that you
Can use to experiment on your own as well
Um
You need some quick data
So what do you do here
This is a function: generate
series one two three
So 1 2 3
And I give it a name
and I create a temporary table
Here are a number of things, so this is going to
Generate numbers,
I think you've got that down
That's a column name that I give it.
And I create a temporary table
A temporary table is actually
Instead of working with a transaction
and doing a rollback
Um
A lazy way of saying
Yes
In the background there are,
of course, all kinds of
Workers who are keeping your database
in order in the background
The moment my session is done
And those workers shoot into action
Then they clean up that temporary table
and remove it
So a bit like the temp
directory on Linux you could say
So that's easy to test things out sometimes
So we're going to request those again.
We'll see, of course
Those numbers 1 2 3 then appear
in that temporary table
Ok
If I run this query
The table numbers has the values 1 2 3
Is this query going to work
or is there a problem here
Who sees the table numbers
I'll show him again maybe
He has the column max_num
And the values 1 2 3
That's the table numbers
So if you look at this query, is there
a problem or is it going to work?
What do you guys think?
Maybe it's a little difficult
to answer that question
But do you understand conceptually
what it says here in the FROM
What is the first step that
happens in the FROM
It's always the same step,
because there's a comma
So the first step is a...
Cross Join, good Filip! Cross Join
Not explicitly stated, so we speak
abstractly of a carthesian product
numbers is 1 2 3
But what does that second table say
What does it say
Could you think conceptually
We haven't seen that yet, but
conceptually you might be able to think
I think something like that is going to be in there
generate_series just starts with value 1
And it stops at value max_num
And max_num was a column from numbers
So
A list from 1 to max_num
Indeed Sigfried, but what is this max_num?
max_num comes from numbers,
so what do you expect there
Very good Jarne, yes
So you are indeed expecting
Numbers is once 1
The max_num of numbers is one
times 1, so I expect once (1, 1)
Numbers is one time 2
The next row in it
So I expect one time
generate_series from 1 to 2
And numbers is one time 3
The last row, so I expect to
generate_series from 1 to 3
This is what you can conceptually
can think of, so that's good.
This is going to be a problem,
he's going to say look, um
That doesn't work, because I
find my max_num
And he sees that - he knows - he realizes
look that's present in the table numbers
But you can't refer to that
because that's on the same level
You can't be at the same level in the FROM
That's not possible
What kind of construction does
this remind us of?
With what we saw in the
first semester
That max_num comes from somewhere else
So when you think about
subquerries, what kind of
This is not a subquerry, but what
kind of subquerry does this remind you of then?
Because I have a dependency here
Indeed Kim, a correlated subquerry
So we can indeed do something like
do like correlated subquerries
But then indeed we have to
Solve this little problem
And we do that by using lateral
So lateral when we have a
subquerry or a
Part in the table in the FROM
And we want to refer to another
part in the FROM that comes before it
Then we use lateral
To say lateral - at
the same level as will
Lateral
So that's how we can actually
start creating those references
So that previous query
This is in more detail of course
So just to sum it up
So you can refer to a previous
table reference - like numbers
You can refer to a previous subquery
(if there is a subquery in the FROM)
Or you can refer to a function
Which returns a set,
a set returning function
So a function that returns a
collection
generate_series is one example.
In the standard
It's even allowed when
there is a set returning function
Of possibly leaving that out -
so I put that there differently
Had had numbers not been a table, but a
Set returning function, then
I could have done that as well
But I don't recommend this last bit
Because that can be a little confusing,
it's just so you know [that it exists]
So if you're referring at the same
level, just put lateral
But with set returning functions
you can leave it out
So I put my lateral here
And from that moment on, I do indeed get
the results that Jarne predicted
So I get 1 with 1
2 is now my max_num here
So I get 1 and 2 at generate_series
combined with those two
And for 3 I get 1 2 3
Now you can see that there is a
dependency in my FROM that I use
So what I just said of look
These two querries, because it is a generate
A set generating function is
Set returning function you can
indeed still use, but well
Show the age of each customer
There are several
ways to solve this
You could do this
with a lateral join now
We have customers, and here
we actually calculate per customer
The age and we say look um
This is of course a complicated construction
to solve something that is normally simpler
Show per customer the age, how
would you normally do that?
It's just a first example
to see that you still have alternatives
Yeah indeed, you're just going to
calculate, retrieve that way
Because we have - maybe
a little note - because we have a
Join condition, left join
He is expecting a join condition
You can think for yourself
What is going on with this join condition
You could try a different join condition
and see what happens
So you might want to try that out.
So
Indeed
I actually gave it away:
is that join condition necessary?
There's actually a carthesic
product being taken there
So I might as well have
put: ON true
Because if you go back
There is no one who made the
remark, but age
And date of birth
And age over here
Could I have put something else here?
So basically just, that true here
That's just because a join, by
definition expects a join condition
Unless this is a
cross join of course
So there you go
This of course gives
the same result
That's the cross join
that I actually use
So, that carthesian product
as we have seen and um
Jarne actually intuitively
felt at first
That's actually how
you guys intuitively feel
From subquerries, from
programming with a
A loop that depends on another loop
So usually we can add that
ON true
So what kind of join
Are you going to use
That depends on you, so
you got that cross here, that inner
Those are going to behave the same way, but
The carthesian product itself
So that continues to behave the same way
Now you use left or right or full
Then any data that was missing
may be filled in
That may have been filtered out
We can actually start choosing here
You can work with a cross
join, you can work with an inner join
Or we can write that down simply by
Directly putting a comma there
So those are all options that you have
Which actually in this case
Are going to behave the same way
Now if we're going to take a look at this here
Then we have something else written here
Take a look at it
Does anyone see the difference?
Where that the difference is made